r r* ’τηινγ-ῳ '‘f“
· ἰ’

xxxii CHRONOLOGIOAL ABSTRACT.

A.‘ D. 1171.

Richard de Luci appointed guardian during the va-
cancy, 139.—Nominates for his deputies Hugo de Beche
and Peter de Oriel, two neighbouring— land-owners (mi-
lites)—who hold their office four years—and careful and
diligent in the execution of it.

Richard de Luci begs the church of Wi for his son God- ⁷

frey de Luci—the monks grant him a moiety of it, 140.-
Godfrey begs the other moiety from the King—the King
consentS, and writes a letter to the Archbishop of Can-
terbury, to give Godfrey institution, 141.—This causes a
great contention between him and the convent.

Many churches and monasteries are vacant at this time
—occasioned by the contest of the King with Thomas a
Becket.—The history of their controversy.

Richard elected Archbishop of Canterbury, 144.—
Henry fills up the ecclesiastical appointments which had
been neglected during the long struggle between himself
and the Archbishop of Canterbury3—-on this occasion the
monks of Battle (among others) are commanded to send
deputies to Woodstock, to treat of the election of a new
'Abbot—the King’s clerks bring them a mandate for that
purpose—shortly after, another message is sent command÷
ing them to bring their charters to the court, 147.—
Struck with astonishment, and much dispirited at the
order, they nominate in the meanwhile two of their mem÷
bem, one of whom the King is to make choice of for Abbot.
—Arrival of the deputation at Woodstock—summoned' to
present themselves first—introduced into the presence of
Gilbert Foliot, Bishop of London—the Bishop demands
their credentials—asks on whom their election had fallen
-objects to it—assures them the King will never consent
to it—-urges them by threats and flattery to make a new
nomination—they refuse, 148—neither party will yield.
-After a great part of the day had been spent in bick-
ering, the King bursts into the room with a frowning

 

